In this video I'll introduce the concept of storage Wii motion and how it can be used to take a virtual
machine and move it from one day to store to another.
And that's the purpose of storage the motion is to take a running VM and move it from one data store
to another.
And what we're moving is the virtual machines set of files.
And this does not result in any downtime whatsoever.
So why would we do a stored V motion.
Well maybe one data store is starting to fill up and we need to take some virtual machines and move
them to another data store or maybe one physical storage device is going to be retired and so we want
to move all of our victims off of it without any downtime.
That's the sort of thing that will use storage of emotion for.
So let's take a look at what happens during a storage Wii motion operation.
And in this case we see we've got a virtual machine in the middle running on ESX I host one.
So that's the host that my Virtu machine is running on.
That's like the live state of the host.
And the files for this host are currently located on data store one.
And so let's assume that data store one is nearly full.
All right and we need to free up some space.
So we want to move the virtual machine files from one data store to another using storage of emotion.
Let's take a look at what actually happens.
While this storage of emotion is in progress OK so again we see this virtual machine that's running
on ESX I host one in the middle of our diagram and our administrator kicks off a storage Wii motion
using the vees for web client.
And so now all of these files need to be copied from data store one to data store.
And this can be really resource intensive VM decay files especially can be really large.
And so all of this virtual machine data all these files are going to be copied from the source data
store to the destination data store and now will have an identical copy of all of the virtual machines
files on both data stores.
Now this might take a while.
And so as this is occurring the copy is occurring the virtual machine continues to run and there may
be changes that occur while this copy is in progress the ESX host has a mechanism called The Mirror
driver.
And what that does is ensures that while this storage Wii motion is in progress while the data is being
copied from day to store one data store to any changes that occur are mirrored across both data stores.
So if anything changes on that virtual machine which is running during the entire storage V motion process
all of those changes are automatically mirror to both the source and destination data stores to keep
them identical.
And when the copy is complete view the data on data store one is disposed of and the virtual machine
instance now uses the copy of the files on data store to and that's a stored V motion.
Now there's a few things you might want to bear in mind when it comes to storage Wii motion.
Number one it's resource intensive.
There's a lot of data potentially copying from data store one data store.
So you may want to plan it for off hours or a time when really there's not a whole lot of other storage
traffic going on just because that could potentially overwhelm the ESX I hostes connection to storage.
And so we want to keep these to a minimum especially during business hours and we want to plan them
out carefully during times of minimal storage usage.
Now one final type of Wii motion that I want to talk about is called a shared nothing Wii motion.
And you may have heard this referred to as an enhanced V motion or a cross host's storage of emotion
and the name tends to change every couple of years and I don't know why that is.
But I think the current name is actually very descriptive so hopefully it'll stick.
This is called a shared nothing V motion.
And in this scenario we've got a virtual machine running on ESX I host one and the virtual machines
files are not on shared storage they're on a data store that is only accessible to ESX I host one.
So now we're in a bit of a bit of a situation here because if I try to take this virtual machine and
Wii motion it to host to it's not going to be able to access any of its files.
So in this case the motion is not possible.
Right.
The motion is not possible because the virtual machine needs to maintain access to those files.
So the only way that we can get a Wii motion to work is if we move not only the virtual machines live
state but the set of files for that virtual machine as well and we move them simultaneously and that's
what a shared nothing.
The motion is in it's going to take the running live state of a virtual machine and all of the files
for that virtual machine.
And it's going to instantiate a copy to the destination.
ESX I host and to another data store that we specify.
And when the copy operation is complete when the virtual machines live state has been completed moving
over a VM motion network when my virtual machine files have been copied from the source data store to
the destination data store.
And I have an identical configuration on both sides.
Then the original virtual machine instance ceases to exist.
And we cut over to the new instance on host to and on the destination data store.
So with this mechanism we can actually take virtual machines that are running a local storage and move
them to a different host.
So that is what we call a shared nothing the motion.
It's not used for duress.
So if you're using distributed resource scheduler de-risk does not actually leverage shared nothing.
The motion de-risk requires shared storage.
It can't do what we see here in this slide.
So in this lesson we learned that storage promotion is used to take a running virtual machine and move
it from one data store to another.
And as the copy is in progress the changes are mirrored to the source and destination data store using
the mirror driver of the ESX I host.
We also learned how we can use a shared nothing or cross host storage Wii motion to take a running virtual
machine and move it from one host to another and one data store to another at the same time even if
we don't have shared storage.